docs: update sdk section (#49)
bucketeer-io/bucketeer-docs: docs/sdk/client-side/flutter/index.md

---

> title: Flutter (Beta)

Author: done

slug: /sdk/client-side/flutter
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This category contains topics explaining how to configure Bucketeer's Flutter SDK.

> :::caution Flutter SDK Version (Beta)

Author: I changed the link to the Flutter repository (https://github.com/bucketeer-io/flutter-client-sdk/issues).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::info Default timeout

The initialize process default timeout is 5 seconds.

Once initialization is finished, all the requests in the SDK use a timeout of 30 seconds.

:::

> If you want to use the feature flag on Splash or Main views, the SDK cache may be old or not exist and may not have enough time to fetch the variations from the Bucketeer server. For this case, we recommend using the `timeout` option in the initialize method. It will block until the SDK receives the latest user variations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use the feature flag on Splash or Main views, the SDK cache may be old or not exist and may not have enough time to fetch the variations from the Bucketeer server. In this case, we recommend using `await` in the initialize method. In addition, you can define a custom timeout.
```

Author: done

:::caution Initialization Timeout error

During the initialization process, errors **are not** related to the initialization itself. Instead, they arise from a timeout request, indicating the variations data from the server weren't received. Therefore, the SDK will work as usual and update the variations in the next [polling](flutter#polling) request.

:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="dart" label="Dart">

```dart showLineNumbers
/// It will unlock without waiting until the fetching variation process finishes
int timeout = 5000;

await BKTClient.initialize(config: config, user: user, timeoutMillis: timeout);

> if (result.isSuccess) {

Reviewer: Please update the code block with the following.

```suggestion
int timeout = 5000;
final result = await BKTClient.initialize(
  config: config, user: user, timeoutMillis: timeout);
if (result.isSuccess) {
  final client = BKTClient.instance;
  if (showNewFeature) {
    /// The Application code to show the new feature
  } else {
    /// The code to run if the feature is off
  }
} else {
  /// Handle the error when there is no cache or the cache is not updated
}
```

Author: done
